case-based reasoning in games directed
by Michael Floyd starring an all-star
international cast games provide many
interesting properties for researchers
like complex environments large search
spaces partial observability real time
constraints and multiagent interaction
because of this games simulations and
robotics have become popular test beds
for AI techniques this video is going to
highlight work that has been done using
case based reasoning and games we will
show contributions from many researchers
all over the world and present their
intriguing case based reasoning research
case based reasoning is based on the
idea that similar problems tend to have
similar solutions previously encountered
problems and their solutions are stored
as cases in a case pace these cases can
then be used to find the solutions to
newly encountered problems
first let's look at Sartre from the
University of Auckland Sartre is using
case based reasoning to play Texas
Holdem Poker against a human opponent it
learns by examining logs of previous
games in 2010 Sartre achieved a
top-three finish at the triple AI
computer poker competition
this system from Laval University learns
by observing the game of Tetris being
played they use reinforcement learning
to improve case retrieval and case usage
metrics to decide which cases to keep
this helps to keep the case base compact
so it can be searched in real-time
the Darmok to system uses case based
planning techniques to learn by
observation Darmok 2 has been used in
the make me play me website to allow
users to generate their own AI in a
variety of games through demonstration
as you may have noticed learning by
observation is a common theme in CBR
games research at Carleton University
they examined how to guide the
observation process to get a good
representation of the problem space and
they also examine how an agent can learn
behaviors in multiple domains
at the University of Washington Tacoma
they've examined online learning during
gameplay when learning micro management
strategies in realtime strategy games
they found that online learning needs to
be carefully moderated and proposed the
use of case generalization techniques to
help achieve this
I spot is a Starcraft agent from the
University of California Santa Cruz the
goal of the project is to augment human
authored reactive plans with mind
knowledge CBR is used for a variety of
tasks in the agent including learning
from demonstrations goal formulation
opponent modeling and state estimation
case-based reasoning isn't just limited
to simulated games at triple ia they use
case based reasoning for cooperative
action selection when controlling a team
of soccer playing robots these robots
work together to control the ball and
score on their opponents goal
cbq lir is a case based reinforcement
learning system that plays american
football initially it uses intent
recognition to learn to predict what
plays the defensive team is performing
it then employees transfer learning and
uses this knowledge to improve its
ability to control the behavior of the
quarterback
case-based reasoning has been used to
make AI development easier for the
developers at complet on a university of
madrid they have done work that allows
designers to refine case based plans
using behavior trees the designers can
identify weaknesses and quickly correct
them by filling in knowledge holes
another CBR tool from complet also
University of Madrid is used for
simplifying the creation of state
machines previously created state
machines are stored in the k space and
are retrieved and reused when a new
state machine is being built this allows
an AI designer to harness past knowledge
and speed up development
the show-me project from Georgia Tech
provides a toolkit that uses case based
reasoning techniques to help users
create their own movies by filling in
lines for user authored story plots a
virtual movie director is then used to
render the animated scenes into a movie
for more information about case based
reasoning computer games please visit
the CBR wiki page